---
title: 2012-07-22 - Rapier 3 points on the ground 
layout: default
---

```
Date: Sun, 22 Jul 2012 09:03:30 -0400
From: "Jim Toscano" <jimtoscano1@comcast.net>
To: Marshalls <Marshalls@seahorse.atlantia.sca.org>
Message-ID: <000001cd680a$64fa0140$2eee03c0$@comcast.net>
Subject: [Marshalls] Rapier 3 points on the ground
```

In response to the request for clarification:

Rapier Fighters will typically place 3 points of the body in contact with the ground, for example legged and placing the free hand on the ground for support.  This is absolutely acceptable and is expected in our fighting.  The fighter is completely capable of defending themselves in this manner and safely in control. 

A fighter becoming recumbent and continuing the fight is not acceptable.  Laying the torso on the ground and striking upwards causes dangerous interactions and is confusing to the attacking fighter.  Attacking fighters attacking a recumbent fighter are inherently placing that person in a safety issue.    

On the tempo that any portion of the fighter’s torso touches the ground while in either the sitting or kneeling positions a hold will be called.  Any action after the hold will be treated as any other action after the hold. If a valid blow is struck on the hold or as the fighter’s torso touches the ground, that blow will be invalid. This same rule applies to the very limber fighter who can lay back from either the sitting or kneeling position touch the ground and then regain their original position, a hold will be called.  The fighter on the ground will not be allowed to utilize this ruling to gain unfair advantage and the rules applicable to gaining an unfair advantage will apply. 

Thank you for your attention to this matter.  Any questions may be referred to me through this media or by my other listed contacts.

Yours In Service

THL Giacomo Vinenti di Firenze, Provost

DEM Rapier, Atlantia

