---
title: 2017-02-28 - rapier mask & helm inspection requirements
layout: default
---

```
Date: Tue, 28 Feb 2017 23:33:57 -0500
From: Brian Caswell <bmc@shmoo.com>
To: Marshalls <Marshalls@seahorse.atlantia.sca.org>
Message-ID: <CAD8tKNfBcYiC3WqnB+onG-tAZok4_8L0_AEMsS08G5XRtmenUQ@mail.gmail.com>
Subject: rapier mask & helm inspection requirements
```

Due to recent society rule changes, proper rapier equipment inspection now includes checking masks and helms for both fit, wear, and padding.  Masks and helms should be inspected both on AND off the combatant at every event.  "It is the mask I always wear" is NOT sufficient.

Specifically, please inspect masks and helms for the following areas of interest:

* Masks and helms must be secured as to not be dislodged or removed during combat.  Specifically, a snug-fit mask and spring-tongue is not sufficient to meet this requirement.

* Masks and helms must have either padding or a suspension system sufficient to prevent internal components of the mask that may cause "injurious contact" from contacting the wearer's head, heck, or body during normal combat.  A FIE/USFA approved fencing mask in good repair is sufficient to meet this requirement.

* Masks and helms should not show signs of rust, broken welds, spread open mesh, internal protrusions, or sharp edges that could injure the wearer.

Masks and helms must be inspected at each event and each day for multi-day events.  Combatants with masks and helms that do not meet society minimum requirements should be given the opportunity to correct the issue, but if they are unable or unwilling, they cannot be allowed to fight in that mask or helm.

Marshals, please perform inspections at your local practices such that combatants are not caught unaware at an event.  We would be well served if each of us carry extra appropriate foam padding in our kit as to assist in repairs.

Relevant sections in the society rapier marshal handbook are listed under "HEAD AND NECK" subsection of the "ARMOR REQUIREMENTS" section linked below.

Thanks,

Brian de Moray

Kingdom Rapier Marshal

https://www.sca.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/01/Fencing-Marshals-Handbook_Jan2024.pdf
